[General idea]
This project is about creating a todo / JIRA framework native to vscode. I noticed that VSCode does not have a good TODO system that lets me keep track of large amounts of tasks at once, with separation into different task categories, with easy job delegation to AI agents.

[Core principle]
The general idea is a board similar to a JIRA board openable like an editor page on vscode. The board should allow for many user created categories, examples being frontend and backend tasks. The tasks themselves show up on items on the board, with a title and description at minimum. Users and agents can optionally attach things like specs or plans to it to each task. There is also a tag based filtering system, and a priority ranking system based off importance, with enough levels of importance to allow for ease of classification. Tasks marked as completed can be moved to a completed section, although it is possible to flag bugs in completed tasks to move them back onto the board. Tasks should be claimable so that users and agents can mark that they are working on a task to prevent duplicate work. It should be easy to drag and drop tasks to different categories, change their tags or priority.

[Git integration]
The system used by this extension should be well integrated with git, such that it supports multiple people working on things from different devices, or in the case of agentic workflows, different branches or worktrees on the same device. Not sure about how this system stores its data yet, but maybe it stores it as in a folder in a workspace, so that the data is still human and agent readable in case someone wants to work on something without having this extension installed?

[Agentic workflows]
The system should be designed with ease of use by AI agents in mind. It should be possible for AI agents such as Claude Code to access relevant parts of the system such as claiming tasks, reading and writing the tasks contents, specs and plans, marking tasks as complete, or adding new tasks or editing current tasks via a VSCode supported method. I should be able to attach context to agents by having a task active, and the agent such as claude code would be able to see the context in active sessions or chats. I should also be able to dispatch agents to work on a task, with a configurable standard prompt for doing so, and it would report its findings and relevant details in the task itself. Agents should also be able to read existing TODO lists and import it into the format required by this extension.
